===== PAGE 131 =====
 
 
131 
 
Test Foundations Phase 
The Test Foundations (TF) phase is designed to equip students with the knowledge and skills 
necessary to be successful aerospace testers, both at the day-to-day execution level as well as the holistic 
test project level and beyond, providing a solid foundation as they enter the test community.  
The curriculum begins with courses in basic Systems Engineering problem decomposition and an 
introduction to Human Systems Integration, Test Acquisition, and Risk Management. During the Plan, 
Execute, Analyze, Report, and Special Subjects (PEARS) module, students will participate in targeted 
academic and flight events to learn foundational principles and context for performing test duties at 
various stages in the lifecycle of a test program. During these events, students will learn and practice 
many of the core competencies that will be expected of them post-graduation. The students then move on 
to Qualitative Evaluations of various aircraft and space systems. The culminating educational event in 
Test Foundations is the Test Management Project (TMP), which is a real-world test program that will be 
planned, executed, and reported on by student teams. Finally, comprehensive written and oral exams will 
allow students to demonstrate their mastery of the entire TPS curriculum and their readiness to be 
technical leaders in the flight and space test community. Throughout the TF phase, students will also learn 
where they fit within the greater acquisition enterprise and how their actions can influence the successful 
development of combat capability. 
References and Texts 
The primary reference used for teaching will be the handouts (typically PowerPoint slides) developed 
for each lesson. These slides can be found on the TPS curriculum portal under lessons indexed with the 
TF prefix. Five texts have been made available to the students, and they should be considered the primary 
Test Foundations texts: 
 
1. Montgomery, Design and Analysis of Experiments, John Wiley and Sons, Inc, 7th/8th 
Edition, 2009/2013. 
2. Ott and Longnecker, An Introduction to Statistical Methods & Data Analysis, Cengage 
Learning, 7th Edition, 2016. 
Curriculum Organization and Learning Objectives 
As shown in the figure below, the Test Foundations phase is organized into five major levels. Within 
each level there is a set of topically arranged modules. The description of each event is found in the 
sections below. 


===== PAGE 132 =====
 
 
132 
 
 
Figure 28: Test Foundations Overview 


===== PAGE 133 =====
 
 
133 
 
TF 5000 Foundations 
(1 Semester Credit Hours) 
The 5000-level course is designed to teach foundational materials that transcend discipline boundaries 
and establish a fundamental mindset, a common lexicon, and a useful method for decomposing problems 
and managing risk. These courses will also help students understand and be able to articulate the ways in 
which they interact with real-world systems. 
TF 5100 Systems Engineering 
Terminal Learning Objectives: 
Upon completion of this Module, students will be able to: 
TLO 1. Describe the foundational Systems Engineering philosophy and principles that permeate the 
test world. 
TLO 2. Trace the use of Systems Engineering principles and tools during test efforts. 
TLO 3. Explain the foundational systems mindset, common lexicon, theoretical-based methods, 
tools, and approaches to decompose problems, formulate a plan, and execute smartly. 
TLO 4. Apply the systems engineering approach to a notional system under development to include 
system functional decomposition, requirements development, and physical and functional 
models/architectures.  
TLO 5. Apply systems thinking to develop a notional test scenario and a detailed test plan to 
include a test hazard analysis. 
 
TF 5101A Systems Engineering for Testers Lecture 
TF 5102A Systems Modeling Architecture Lecture 
TF 5103R Systems Engineering for Testers Project Written Report 
TF 5104Z Systems Engineering for Testers Debrief 
The first block will teach students the fundamentals of Systems Engineering and how it applies to 
test. It covers complexity, systems theory, the scientific method, an abstract approach for decomposing 
the modern battlespace into test requirements, and a process for generating data and reducing system risk. 
The following blocks will then build on these modeling concepts and provide simple constructs for 
modeling systems from function to form.  
The written report provides an opportunity for the student to engage individually in Systems 
Engineering artifact development and communicate their purpose and importance to complexity 
management, test strategy development, and risk management using a notional system provided by the 
instructor. This project consists of a short technical report on a notional complex system, providing an 
opportunity for the student to demonstrate comprehension across a spectrum of Systems Engineering 
artifacts. 
Prerequisites:  
AN 5180A Test Foundations Phase Intro 
 


===== PAGE 134 =====
 
 
134 
 
TF 5200 Human Systems Integration 
Terminal Learning Objectives: 
Upon completion of this Module, students will be able to: 
TLO 1. Explain the foundational systems mindset, common lexicon, theoretically based methods, 
tools, and approaches to decompose Human Systems Integration problems, formulate a 
plan, and execute smartly.  
TLO 2. Explain the complex human-system interface and the importance of design in terms of total 
system performance.  
TLO 3. Apply an appropriate design of experiments to test design configurations objectively to 
produce the necessary evidence to support or decline various interfaces.  
TLO 4. Apply qualitative and quantitative Human Systems Integration as a systems-based scientific 
methodology in the flight test community. 
 
TF 5201A Human Systems Integration Lecture 
TF 5202S Model-Based Human Systems Integration Sim/Lab 
TF 5203A Human Machine Interface Lecture 
The first block introduces Human System Integration (HSI) as a systems-based scientific 
methodology and highlights test considerations. It presents considerations for the human element cross-
over into other all other disciplines. This block will introduce concepts of cognitive workload assessment 
and conducting HSI evaluations of systems. This block will also introduce qualitative and quantitative 
approaches to Human Systems Integration. 
The Model-Based Human Systems Integration (MB HSI) sim/lab orients students to human systems 
testing in a simulation environment. During a 1.5-hour test block, each student will receive a simulator 
orientation and individual simulator tasks. Basic Performance Resource measures will be collected and 
used in appropriate curriculum events for analysis. 
The last block reviews aspects of the human role in the operations process and describes the role of 
the TPS graduate in the Human Systems testing process. The block emphasizes space/aviation Human 
Systems history as it relates to major aviation, military, and space developments. The topics covered 
include control and display principles, along with cognitive workload assessment. Additionally, the last 
block covers basic functionality and limitations of human sensation and perception, as well as 
components of situation awareness, models of decision making, and case studies of both, mishaps and 
recent real-world test programs involving Human Machine Interface. 
Prerequisites:  
AN 5180A Test Foundations Phase Intro 
 
TF 5210L Anthropometric Measurements Lab 
The objective of this lab is to introduce the student to the science of Anthropometry (the measurement 
of human body dimensions). Anthropometric technicians will measure a variety of body dimensions for 
each student. Those dimensions will be placed into a Human Systems computer database which describes 
how students’ individual body dimensions compare to the historic US Air Force aircrew population. Each 
student will be provided a copy of their anthropometric measurements and percentiles, which can be used 
for future evaluations both at TPS and follow-on test assignments. 
Prerequisites: 
TF 5201A Human Systems Integration Lecture 
 
 
 
 


===== PAGE 135 =====
 
 
135 
 
TF 5230M Human Systems Evaluation MIB 
TF 5231S Human Systems Evaluation Sim 
TF 5232R Human Systems Evaluation Modified Technical Report 
The purpose of the MIB is to orient students to the scope and expectations of the Human Systems 
Evaluation Modified Technical Report and provide a dedicated opportunity for students to query the 
instructor regarding details of the report. Expectations for the system under test, data collection methods, 
and design of experiments guidelines will be provided. Students will work in groups to collect task 
performance data, evaluate the system interface, and provide design change recommendations in the 
technical report. 
Prerequisites:  
 
TF 5203A Human Machine Interface Lecture 
TF 6430A Deficiency Reports Lecture 
TF 7601A Wideband Global SATCOM (WGS) Intro (STC)  
 


===== PAGE 136 =====
 
 
136 
 
TF 5300 Introduction to Test in Acquisition (STC) 
Terminal Learning Objectives: 
Upon completion of this Module, students will be able to: 
TLO 1. Recognize the high-level policy documents as they apply to an Integrated Test Team (ITT). 
TLO 2. Describe the purpose of the Integrated Test Team for a DAF acquisition program. 
TLO 3. Practice oral presentation skills on an instructional topic. 
TLO 4. Evaluate a Test & Evaluation Master Plan for a major capability acquisition in accordance 
with the DOT&E TEMP Guidebook. 
TLO 5. Integrate OSD and DAF guidance to develop a test strategy. 
TLO 6. Explain terms and processes applicable to a TEMP for a major capability acquisition. 
TLO 7. Recognize the high-level policy documents as they apply to an Integrated Test Team (ITT) 
TLO 8. Describe the purpose of the Integrated Test Team for a DAF acquisition program 
TLO 9. Practice oral presentation skills on an instructional topic 
 
TF 5310M Test Policy Assignment Briefing (STC) 
TF 5311Y Test Policy Oral Report (STC) 
Students will conduct independent study using provided policy documents (DoD, DAF, and USSF 
instructions and guidance) related to Test and Evaluation. Students will review, research, and present 
relevant information to their classmates and instructors with a focus on their role in an Integrated Test 
Team (ITT). Each student will be assigned a single document to research and work with a group to 
develop a 45-minute oral presentation on the assigned document. 
Prerequisites:  
AN 5180A Test Foundations Phase Intro 
 
TF 5320A Test and Evaluation Master Plan (TEMP) Development and Strategic Planning 
(STC) 
Students will be introduced to DAF and OSD guidance on development of test strategies and TEMPs. 
This course will consist of a lecture, guided research using OSD or DAF-provided tools, case studies, and 
a student project. Given actual acquisition program documents, students will review a TEMP from the 
perspective of an oversight organization.  
Prerequisites: 
TF 5301A Introduction to Space Systems Testing (STC) 
TF 5310Y Test Policy Oral Report (STC) 
TF 6510A Joint Test and Evaluation (JT&E) (STC)  
TL 5110A Operational Test 
 
 


===== PAGE 137 =====
 
 
137 
 
TF 5400 Risk Management 
Terminal Learning Objectives: 
Upon completion of this Module, students will be able to: 
TLO 1. Negotiate complex systems modeling to support employing the Mission Risk Framework 
TLO 2. Characterize complex systems and create appropriate models.  
TLO 3. Summarize the appropriate limits and utility of legacy risk management rubrics.  
TLO 4. Infer the implications of human decision fallibility and its implications to modeling risks.  
 
TF 5401A Mission Risk Frameworks (MiRF) 
This block introduces the framework which can be applied to complex systems and used for risk and 
safety analysis. This framework will be used throughout the curriculum for modeling and assessing a 
range of systems from simple to complex.  
Prerequisites: 
TF 6101A PEARS Introduction Lecture 
 
TF 5410A Test Safety Principles Lecture 
TF 5411A Introduction to Test Safety (STC) 
TF 5412A Introduction to Operational Risk Management (STC) 
TF 5413A X-31 Guest Lecture (STC) 
These blocks provide the basic knowledge of test safety and hazard/risk identification, to include 
safety planning, Final Safety Review (FSR), test plan approval, test execution, and the project test plan 
change process. Test safety processes will be reinforced through practical exercises throughout the 
course. Students receive initial Project Safety Lead (PSL) qualifications upon completion of this course. 
Prerequisites:  
 
TF 5401A Mission Risk Frameworks (MiRF) 
TF 6401A Test Reporting Lecture 
 
TF 5420A Functional Mission Analysis (STC) 
This course presents the Functional Mission Analysis, a hazard analysis technique based on an 
extended model of mishap causation. Component failures, unsafe interactions, and social-technical 
systems − or the combination of all three − can be analyzed as a whole. Case studies of applications to 
past mishaps are presented. Students are led through applications to posed test projects to practice 
Functional Mission Analysis application. 
Prerequisites:  
 
TF 5401A Mission Risk Frameworks (MiRF) 
 


===== PAGE 138 =====
 
 
138 
 
TF 5500 Photo/Safety Chase (FTC) 
Terminal Learning Objectives: 
Upon completion of this Module, students will be able to: 
TLO 1. Demonstrate the tenants of photo and safety chase. 
 
TF 5501M Photo/Safety Chase Introduction and Familiarization MIB (ABM/CSO/P/FTE) 
TF 5502F T-38 Photo/Safety Chase Familiarization (ABM/CSO/FTE) 
TF 5503F T-38 Photo/Safety Chase Introduction (P) 
The objective of this mission is to familiarize the student with differences in photo, safety, and area 
chase. Students will practice or observe roles and responsibilities for a representative variety of chase 
maneuvers from both the test aircraft and the chase aircraft. These roles include test/chase communication 
and coordination, in the test role; precise flight test execution and management of chase, and in the chase 
role; flying techniques for a variety of chase challenges. 
Prerequisites: 
CF 6370F T-38 Flight Training (ABM/CSO/FTE) [req’d for TF 5502F] 
CF 6701F T-38 CF-Form (P) [req’d for TF 5503F] 
 
TF 5510M C-12 Photo/Safety Chase MIB (RPA) 
TF 5511F C-12 Photo/Safety Chase (RPA) 
TF 5520F C-12 Photo/Safety Chase Target (optional for P/RPA) 
The objective of this mission is for RPA student pilots to understand and apply procedures and 
techniques for 2-ship maneuvering and photo/safety chase for UAV chase missions. Student pilots have 
the optional opportunity to fly as target. 
Prerequisites: 
CF 6542F C-12 CF-3 (P, crew solo) [req’d for TF 5520F] 
CF 6551F C-12 Flight Training (P, non-crew solo) [req’d for TF 5520F] 
CF 6805F C-12 CF-5 Formation (RPA) [req’d for TF 5511F] 
 


===== PAGE 139 =====
 
 
139 
 
TF 6000 Plan, Execute, Analyze, Report, Special Subjects (PEARS) 
(3 Semester Credit Hours) 
The 6000-level phase gives the student an understanding of the basic components involved with 
planning, executing, analyzing, and reporting during a test program. Many practical aspects of the day-to-
day life of an aerospace tester are covered in a variety of academic events. These courses address the 
reality that a test professional may show up at any phase in the lifecycle of a test program, and it aims to 
equip students to be useful test team members wherever they go. 
  
TF 6100 Plan 
Terminal Learning Objectives: 
Upon completion of this Module, students will be able to: 
TLO 1. Explain the basic "vocabulary" of the various phases of an aerospace test program, from 
program initiation through final reporting. 
TLO 2. Explain the expected actions within the test community at different points in a test 
program, including the day-to-day responsibilities of an aerospace test professional. 
TLO 3. Demonstrate effective and efficient planning and execution of a successful test. 
TLO 4. Create the applicable data products to answer test objectives for a given system under test. 
TLO 5. Create data-driven findings of a system under test to various stakeholders at the appropriate 
level. 
 
TF 6101A PEARS Introduction Lecture 
TF 6102A Test Planning Lecture 
TF 6103Y Test Planning Oral Report  
TF 6104A Intro to Managing Tests Lecture 
The first block introduces students to the basic components involved with planning, executing, 
analyzing, and reporting during a test program. It provides context for the TF 6000 level of academics and 
introduces some of the basic “vocabulary” of aerospace test programs.  
The second block introduces students to the responsibilities of a tester, provides the context to help 
them understand where developmental testing fits into the greater acquisition enterprise, and introduces 
them to the processes which support test planning and execution. 
The third block will introduce students to the basic format and development strategy for Air Force 
Test Center (AFTC)-style test plans. It will explain the construct of specific and achievable objectives and 
detail the sub-sections that are hallmarks of an executable plan that will answer the customer’s questions. 
The oral report consists of a ten-minute group presentation that will take place a few days after the 
Test Planning Lecture. Students will analyze a provided test vignette, identify requirements and test 
objectives, develop a test methodology, identify a risk, and communicate their plan. 
Prerequisites:  
AN 5180A Test Foundations Phase Intro 
 
TF 6110A Test Card Introduction Lecture 
This block provides students with an overview of test card requirements, best practices for test card 
layout, human factors design principles, techniques to optimize safety and data collection ability, and 
examples of test cards from various test programs. 
Prerequisites:  
TF 6102A Test Planning Lecture 
 
 
 


===== PAGE 140 =====
 
 
140 
 
TF 6120A Program Management Lecture 
This block provides students with the basics of program management as applied to aerospace test and 
discusses the theory and application of theory of constraints (TOC) at the Air Force Test Center. 
Specifically, TOC is the method used to schedule projects within the constraints of available resources. 
Real-world test programs will be presented highlighting the project scope, resources, and associated risks 
(safety, technical, security, and programmatic). 
Prerequisites:  
 
TF 6101A PEARS Introduction Lecture 
 
TF 6130A Combat Test Framework Lecture (STC) 
This block introduces students to the combat test framework which is intended to obtain combat 
realistic data for a system under test. Students will learn to leverage system decomposition, the integrated 
evaluation framework, and realistic threat-based combat scenarios to develop test events that produce 
combat relevant data. 
Prerequisites:  
 
TF 6101A PEARS Introduction Lecture 
 
TF 6140A Operational Test (OT) Planning and Execution (STC) 
TF 6141A USSF Integrated Testing (STC) 
This block introduces students to formal Operational Test (OT) in the context of fielding new 
capabilities. An overview of the US laws governing OT and independent operational assessments will be 
presented. OT objectives and test considerations will be compared with those of Developmental Test 
(DT). Key OT terminology such as Effectiveness and Suitability will be presented, in addition to the 
different OT organizations and considerations for integrated testing will be discussed. 
Prerequisites:  
 
TF 5320A Test and Evaluation Master Plan (TEMP) Development (STC) 
TF 6101A PEARS Introduction Lecture  
TL 5110A Operational Test 
 


===== PAGE 141 =====
 
 
141 
 
 
Figure 29: TF 6100 Plan 


===== PAGE 142 =====
 
 
142 
 
TF 6200 Execute 
Terminal Learning Objectives: 
Upon completion of this Module, students will be able to: 
TLO 1. Explain the expected actions within the test community at different points in a test 
program, including the day-to-day responsibilities of an aerospace test professional 
TLO 2. Demonstrate effective and efficient planning and execution of a successful test. 
 
TF 6201A Test Conduct Lecture 
TF 6202B Performance Test Conduct Lecture 
This course introduces students to the fundamentals of test control and conduct and familiarizes them 
with content of AFTCI 99-105, Test Control and Conduct. It emphasizes the elements required for safe 
and efficient test control and conduct to include required personnel, mission preparation, test card 
generation, communications plans, execution techniques, and post-test debrief.  
Prerequisites: 
PF 8202E Energy Exam [req’d for TF 6202B] 
TF 6101A PEARS Introduction Lecture 
 
TF 6210A Time Safety Margin Lecture (FTC) 
This lesson introduces students to Time Safety Margin (TSM) calculations, demonstrates how TSM 
can be utilized for safe test execution, and equips the students to be able to plan their own TSMs. 
Prerequisites: 
TF 6201A Test Conduct Lecture 
  
TF 6220M Control Room Test Conduct Primer MIB (ABM/FTE/STC) 
TF 6221C Control Room Test Conduct Primer (ABM/FTE/STC) 
The MIB presents a flight test scenario composed of various flying qualities and mission system test 
points. System requirements, test objectives, and measures of performance from the provided test plan are 
presented to introduce students to an example of decomposing system requirements into test objectives 
and data requirements used to develop the appropriate FTT or test methodology. The mission profile, 
communication plan, limits, and control room screens are also reviewed. Utilizing the controlled 
environment afforded with a simulator, a mock flight test is conducted from the control room. Students 
are familiarized with the radio procedures and control room environment and are given the opportunity to 
practice control of a test mission to include basic test point pacing, data monitoring, and maneuver 
feedback. CSO, P, and RPA students have the option to sit in and observe the event. 
Prerequisites: 
CF 6620B Control Room Ground School (ABM/CSO/FTE/RPA/STC) 
CF 6621C Control Room Familiarization [req’d for TF 6231C] 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


===== PAGE 143 =====
 
 
143 
 
TF 6230M F-16/Control Room Test Conduct Intro MIB 
TF 6231C F-16/Control Room Test Conduct Intro (ABM/FTE execute, CSO/P/RPA 
observe) 
TF 6232F F-16/Control Room Test Conduct Intro Flight (optional flight for CSO/P/RPA) 
TF 6233C Sim/Control Room Test Conduct Intro (STC) 
Utilizing flight test techniques derived from propulsion testing, students are introduced to the 
methods for conducting a test from a remote telemetry control room. This event builds on the control 
room resources introduced in CF 6621C Control Room Familiarization and concepts for control room 
operations introduced in TF 6221C Control Room Test Conduct Primer. This event also increases the 
complexity of test conduct with active test control and the real-world “fog and friction” associated with 
actual flight test. 
Prerequisites: 
CF 6673F F-16 CF-4 (P, crew solo) [req’d for TF 6232F] 
CF 6680F F-16 Flight Training (ABM/CSO/FTE/RPA) [req’d for TF 6232F] 
CF 6681F F-16 Flight Training (P, non-crew solo) [req’d for TF 6232F] 
TF 6220M Control Room Test Conduct Primer MIB (ABM/FTE/STC) 
TF 6221C Control Room Test Conduct Primer (ABM/FTE/STC) [req’d for TF 6231C] 
 
TF 6240M C-12 Airborne Test Conduct Intro MIB 
TF 6241F C-12 Airborne Test Conduct Intro (FTC) 
TF 6242F C-12 Airborne Test Conduct Intro (STC) 
The MIB gives students information on test conduct techniques, test team coordination, and in-flight 
data collection. It also highlights mission events for a C-12 Airborne Test Conduct Intro flight that 
introduces FTC students to directing a test mission as a participating entity not in control of the vehicle 
flightpath. During the flight, an instructor will demonstrate test conduct techniques for a ride-along test 
collecting data from systems independent of the C-12 during a concurrent flight test of C-12 performance 
FTTs. Instruction will be provided on data collection techniques, test team communication, and the 
importance of understanding test execution pacing and timing. 
STC students will ride-along an airborne event which will be accomplished during existing FTC C-12 
events when a C-12 IP is required, not including practical events (see list below). The MIB gives STC 
students information on airborne test conduct techniques, test team coordination, and in-flight data 
collection. For the event, students will conduct ride-along evaluation of a Time Space Position 
Instrumentation (TSPI) system. Students are provided with MPG/Test Plan/Test Matrix and are required 
to create test cards, evaluation methods, and track test matrix completion as a team. Instruction will be 
provided on data collection and analysis techniques for TSPI systems and a description of the flight test 
techniques that will occur during the ride-along events. Sorties that can be used for ride-along 
include:  TF 6241F C-12 Airborne Test Conduct Intro, PF 8211F C-12 Level Accel/Turn Perf Flight, PF 
8302F C-12 Autopilot Flight Control System Flight, TF 6251F C-12 Intermediate Airborne Test Conduct, 
FQ 6241F C-12 S 
Prerequisites: 
CF 6503S C-12 Cockpit Familiarization (ABM/FTE/STC) [req’d for TF 6241F] 
CF 6542F C-12 CF-3 (P, crew solo) [req’d for TF 6241F]  
CF 6550F C-12 Flight Training (ABM/CSO/FTE) [req’d for TF 6241F] 
CF 6551F C-12 Flight Training (P, non-crew solo) [req’d for TF 6241F]  
CF 6803F C-12 CF-3 (RPA) [req’d for TF 6241F] 
TF 6220M Control Room Test Conduct Primer MIB (ABM/FTE/STC) 
TF 6221C Control Room Test Conduct Primer (ABM/FTE/STC) [req’d for TF 6241F]  
TF 6267F Glider Low Lift/Drag (L/D) Follow-Up Exercise (STC) [req’d for TF 6242F]  
 


===== PAGE 144 =====
 
 
144 
 
 
TF 6250M C-12 Intermediate Airborne Test Conduct MIB (FTC) 
TF 6251F C-12 Intermediate Airborne Test Conduct (FTC) 
A C-12 based event in which students will work in pairs to plan, execute, and debrief a successful 
test. Students will be responsible for all aspects of the test, from mission profile development and flight 
card generation to timeline adherence and real-time decision-making during execution based on provided 
mission priorities. During debrief, students will rate maneuver data quality, discuss lessons learned, and 
present flight test results using provided performance analysis tools.  
Prerequisites: 
TF 6202B Performance Test Conduct Lecture 
TF 6240M C-12 Airborne Test Conduct Intro MIB 
TF 6241F C-12 Airborne Test Conduct Intro [req’d for TF 6251F] 
PF 8241F Data Group Level Accel/Turn Perf Data Flights 2 [req’d for TF 6251F] 
 
TF 6260A Air Vehicle Aerodynamics Lecture (STC) 
TF 6261A Pitot-Statics Lecture (STC) 
TF 6262A Low L/D Guest Lecture (STC) 
TF 6263M Glider Low Lift/Drag (L/D) Exercise MIB (STC) 
TF 6264F Glider Low Lift/Drag (L/D) Exercise (STC) 
TF 6265R Glider Low Lift/Drag (L/D) Exercise Report (STC) 
TF 6266M Glider Low Lift/Drag (L/D) Follow-Up Exercise MIB (STC) 
TF 6267F Glider Low Lift/Drag (L/D) Follow-Up Exercise (STC) 
TF 6268R Glider Low Lift/Drag (L/D) Follow-Up Exercise Report (STC) 
The aerodynamics lesson describes the four basic forces of flight, Bernoulli’s Theory and Newton’s 
Laws, how a wing makes lift, critical angle of attack and stalls, how center of gravity affects aircraft 
stability, and why an aircraft turns. The pitot statics lesson describes the basic concepts of a pitot-static 
system and associated instruments, common sources of error in pitot-static measurements, error sources to 
data accuracy, and the relationship of data accuracy to test and evaluation results. The Low L/D guest 
lecture will provide students with background and lessons learned in developing and executing the low 
L/D profile in the T-38 aircraft and an opportunity to interact with an experienced T&E professional. 
The glider exercise consists of multiple lessons to prepare the class to execute a limited scope test, 
analyze the results and report on those results. The purpose of the exercise is to reinforce the preceding 
classroom lessons and introduce students to the dynamics of testing in a controlled environment with 
coaching from instructors. Student teams will need to operate in an unfamiliar environment and under 
significant time constraints. Students will prepare a limited scope test plan and submit it for approval 
prior to execution of the events. Students have the option to fly with an instructor on at least one data 
collection. Data from each will be compiled into a shared set of test data for the class. The exercise will 
include a risk assessment workshop (1.5 hr.) and Test Plan review (1.5 hr.). The last block will expose the 
student to test conduct in a unique environment while exploring additional concepts. 
Prerequisites: 
CF 5120H Local Area Survival [req’d for TF 6264F] 
CF 5130A Physiological Effects [req’d for TF 6264F] 
CF 5141A Introduction to Emergency Procedures (ABM/FTE/STC) [req’d for TF 6264F] 
CF 5210A Flight Safety Brief [req’d for TF 6264F] 
CF 5220A Local Area Orientation Briefing [req’d for TF 6264F] 
CF 5301A Crew Resource Management [req’d for TF 6264F] 
TF 6202B Performance Test Conduct Lecture  
TF 6404Z Test Reporting Feedback [req’d for TF 6263M] 


===== PAGE 145 =====
 
 
145 
 
TF 6410B Technical Reports [req’d for TF 6263M] 
 
TF 6270B T-38 Low L/D Flight/Control Room MIB (STC) 
TF 6271C T-38 Low L/D Control Room (select STC) 
TF 6272F T-38 Low L/D Flight (select STC)  
The T-38 Low L/D Flight/Control Room event will entail STC students executing the T-38 Low L/D 
profile in the aircraft and/or the control room. Provided mission materials (MPG and test cards) will detail 
the event and tie aircraft modeling to glide performance. Control room screens will demonstrate how 
aircraft modeling and predictions can be applied to real-time monitoring. Pre-recorded T-38 control room 
data will be available for mission playback for scheduling scenarios where a telemetry-capable T-38 is 
not available. 
Prerequisites: 
CF 5101H Emergency Parachute Training [req’d for TF 6272F] 
CF 5110H Life Support Equipment Training [req’d for TF 6272F] 
CF 5140A Ejection Decision Making [req’d for TF 6272F] 
CF 6304S T-38 Cockpit Familiarization (ABM/CSO/FTE/RPA/STC) [req’d for TF 6272F]  
TF 6233C Sim/Control Room Test Conduct Intro (STC) [req’d for TF 6272F] 
TF 6267F Glider Low Lift/Drag (L/D) Follow-Up Exercise (STC) 
 
TF 6280A Secure Flight Test – Special Topics Lecture (US Only) 
This block discusses test security considerations and presents some useful techniques for dealing with 
sensitive tests. 
Prerequisites: 
TF 6201A Test Conduct Lecture


===== PAGE 146 =====
 
 
146 
 
 
Figure 30: TF 6200 Execute 


===== PAGE 147 =====
 
 
147 
 
TF 6300 Analyze 
Terminal Learning Objectives: 
Upon completion of this Module, students will be able to: 
TLO 1. Apply statistical techniques. 
 
TF 6301A Statistics for Testers Lecture 
TF 6302Y Statistics for Testers Oral Report 
This block will teach students how to use statistical techniques to extract information from test data. 
Specifically, the role that statistics can play in the test process is discussed. The following basic concepts 
are explained: variability, random sampling, designed experiments, mechanistic versus empirical models, 
enumerative versus analytic studies, and finally sample mean and variance versus population mean and 
variance. This block also teaches students to compute various statistics, display results, and interpret 
them. It covers the basics of probability distributions and how to use them. Finally, students will be able 
to apply the following basic statistical techniques to test problems: hypothesis tests, linear regression, 
confidence intervals, and prediction intervals. 
Prerequisites: 
TF 6101A PEARS Introduction Lecture 
 
TF 6310A Statistics Based Test Design Lecture 
TF 6311Y Statistics Based Test Design Oral Report 
TF 6312Z Statistics Based Test Design Debrief 
Building on the statistics learned and reviewed in TF 6301A, this block will teach students how to 
apply statistical and constrained optimization methods to designing statistically defensible tests while 
meeting programmatic constraints such as test hours, instrumentation costs, and total budget. The general 
concept of Design of Experiments (DOE) is derived using optimization theory and applied to the concept 
of designing a constrained test program that can answer the customer’s questions in a statistically 
defensible manner.  
Prerequisites: 
TF 6301A Statistics for Testers Lecture 
 
TF 6320A Data Presentation Lecture 
This block covers techniques for presenting data in a variety of media to communicate a clear 
message to the intended audience. Methods of presenting data in a visible, clear, and convincing manner 
are covered along with common presentation pitfalls. 
Prerequisites: 
TF 6101A PEARS Introduction Lecture 
 


===== PAGE 148 =====
 
 
148 
 
TF 6400 Report 
Terminal Learning Objectives: 
Upon completion of this Module, students will be able to: 
TLO 1. Create the applicable data products to answer test objectives for a given system under test. 
TLO 2. Create data-driven findings of a system under test to various stakeholders at the appropriate 
level. 
 
TF 6401A Test Reporting Lecture 
TF 6402R Test Reporting Written Report - Individual 
TF 6403R Test Reporting Written Report - Group 
TF 6404Z Test Reporting Feedback 
This block introduces students to the concept of test reporting; specifically, why they write reports 
and where reports fit into the overall test process. It introduces the various types of reports in the test 
world and lists the reports that students will produce during the curriculum. Students will write an 
individual report using sample aircraft data and receive feedback. Students will also work in a group to 
collect data, analyze data, write a report, and receive report feedback. 
Prerequisites: 
TF 6101A PEARS Introduction Lecture  
TF 6320A Data Presentation Lecture [req’d for TF 6402R] 
 
TF 6410B Technical Reports 
This course teaches students how to communicate test results in an efficient manner that meets the 
user’s need. It emphasizes how to organize and support technical discussions. It explains how to write 
technical reports and provides examples of different styles/formats. 
Prerequisites: 
TF 6320A Data Presentation Lecture 
 
TF 6420A Oral Reporting Lecture 
This block introduces techniques for reporting on test data in an oral presentation. Common 
PowerPoint tips and pitfalls are discussed. 
Prerequisites: 
TF 6401A Test Reporting Lecture 
 
TF 6430B Deficiency Reports Lecture 
This block introduces students to deficiency reports, specifically what they are, who can submit them, 
how they are written, and how they are handled by the test organization, the program office, AFMC, and 
the contractor once they are written. 
Prerequisites: 
TF 6401A Test Reporting Lecture 
 


===== PAGE 149 =====
 
 
149 
 
TF 6500 Special Topics 
Terminal Learning Objectives: 
Upon completion of this Module, students will be able to: 
TLO 1. Recall critical elements of special test foundations topics. 
 
TF 6501A Space Acquisition and Test Lecture (STC) 
TF 6502A Space Acquisition and Test Lecture (US Only STC) 
This block introduces students to space acquisition/test and identifies the similarities and differences 
between space and air vehicle test. The student is introduced to the space environment, systems, missions, 
organizations, acquisition, and test. The block includes a discussion of space policy guidance and specific 
discussions of space developmental and operational test, including examples and real-world vignettes. 
This block also introduces classified space systems with a discussion of real-world acquisition and test 
considerations for such systems.  
Prerequisites: 
TF 6101A PEARS Introduction Lecture  
 
TF 6510A Joint Test and Evaluation (JT&E) (STC) 
This is a two day-long guided exercise provided by the Air Force Joint Test Program Office. The 
students will exercise the process that rapidly provides non-materiel solutions to identified operational 
deficiencies. The course will review operational test definitions such as Critical Operational Issues (COI), 
System Under Test (SUT), and Tactics, Techniques and Procedures (TTP), and Measures of 
Effectiveness/Suitability (MOE/MOS). The students will be posed with operational deficiencies and will 
generate a COI, and associated MOEs/MOSs. The students will develop an execution/data plan for a “test 
event” of a non-materiel solution (TTP). They will analyze the results and report on the findings. 
Prerequisites: 
TF 6101A PEARS Introduction Lecture 
 
TF 6520A All Weather Testing Lecture 
This block teaches students why all-weather testing is done, what the major objectives are, where 
these tests are conducted, and how to plan and execute an all-weather test. 
Prerequisites:  
 
TF 6101A PEARS Introduction Lecture 
 


===== PAGE 150 =====
 
 
150 
 
 TF 7000 Qualitative Evaluations 
(3 Semester Credit Hours) 
The Qualitative Evaluation (qual eval, QE) program is designed to build a strong and broad 
foundation of experience for test aircrew through exposure to different aircraft, systems, and missions 
using a variety of military and civilian platforms. This program will reinforce the TPS curriculum through 
application of theory, test techniques, analysis, and reporting. It will expose TPS students to a variety of 
aircraft performance, flying qualities, and systems characteristics while increasing confidence in their 
ability to handle new test situations in a systematic and logical manner using a buildup approach. 
TF 7100 Graded Qualitative Evaluations 
Terminal Learning Objectives: 
Upon completion of this Module, students will be able to: 
TLO 1. Differentiate between a variety of aircraft/spacecraft performance, flying qualities, and 
systems characteristics as their experiences broaden through exposure to multiple platforms.  
TLO 2. Prioritize collection of appropriate, mission-relevant data which will answer evaluation 
objectives during planning and execution of single-sortie qualitative evaluations in 
unfamiliar platforms.  
TLO 3. Interpret qualitative evaluation results in the context of system requirements and the 
platforms’ intended mission through limited-scope written reports. 
 
TF 7101A Qual Eval Program Intro Lecture 
TF 7102A Contractor Interaction Lecture 
Students are introduced to the purpose of qualitative evaluations. Techniques are presented to help the 
students make the most of every qual eval, and specific safety considerations are introduced. The lesson 
emphasizes techniques on how to properly report on their flight and gives guidelines for the graded qual 
eval flights. Since many of the qual eval instructor pilots will be contractors, students are reminded of the 
sensitivities faced when dealing with contractors and are instructed on the proper way to interface with 
them. 
Prerequisites: 
AN 5121A Dean of Faculty Introduction 
 
TF 7110M Graded Qual Eval 1 MIB 
TF 7111G Graded Qual Eval 1 Ground School 
TF 7112F Graded Qual Eval 1 Flight 
TF 7113R Graded Qual Eval 1 Report 
For each of the three graded qual eval flights, an MIB will introduce the aircraft and the mission for 
which it will be evaluated. The instructor pilot will provide ground school academics covering the major 
systems of the subject aircraft as well as any required briefing items and aircraft handling techniques. 
Following each qual eval flight, students will write a qual eval report documenting their flight and 
evaluating the aircraft for use in a particular mission. 
Prerequisites: 
FQ 6222F Learjet Lat-Dir Stability Flight (P/RPA) [req’d for TF 7112F] 
FQ 6223F Learjet Combined Long/Lat-Dir Flight (ABM/CSO/FTE) [req’d for TF 7112F] 
TF 5201A Human Systems Integration Lecture 
TF 7102A Contractor Interaction Lecture 
 
 
 
 


===== PAGE 151 =====
 
 
151 
 
 
TF 7120M Graded Qual Eval 2 MIB 
TF 7121G Graded Qual Eval 2 Ground School 
TF 7122F Graded Qual Eval 2 Flight 
TF 7123R Graded Qual Eval 2 Report 
This is the second graded qual eval. 
Prerequisites: 
FQ 6222F Learjet Lat-Dir Stability Flight (P/RPA) [req’d for TF 7122F] 
FQ 6223F Learjet Combined Long/Lat-Dir Flight (ABM/CSO/FTE) [req’d for TF 7122F] 
TF 5201A Human Systems Integration Lecture  
TF 7102A Contractor Interaction Lecture 
 
TF 7130M Graded Qual Eval 3 MIB 
TF 7131G Graded Qual Eval 3 Ground School 
TF 7132F Graded Qual Eval 3 Flight 
TF 7133R Graded Qual Eval 3 Report 
This is the third graded qual eval. 
Prerequisites: 
FQ 6222F Learjet Lat-Dir Stability Flight (P/RPA) [req’d for TF 7132F] 
FQ 6223F Learjet Combined Long/Lat-Dir Flight (ABM/CSO/FTE) [req’d for TF 7132F] 
TF 5201A Human Systems Integration Lecture  
TF 7102A Contractor Interaction Lecture 
 


===== PAGE 152 =====
 
 
152 
 
TF 7200 Experience Broadening Qualitative Evaluation 
Terminal Learning Objectives: 
Upon completion of this Module, students will be able to: 
TLO 1. Differentiate between a variety of aircraft/spacecraft performance, flying qualities, and 
systems characteristics as their experiences broaden by flying multiple platforms.  
 
TF 7201M Experience Broadening Qual Eval MIB 
TF 7210-15G Experience Broadening Qual Eval Ground School 1-6 
TF 7220-25F Experience Broadening Qual Eval Flight 1-6 
Additional unique aircraft will be brought in and flown to expand the students’ experience base. Like 
the graded qual evals, some aircraft brought in will have a short MIB highlighting the aircraft and the 
mission for which it should be evaluated, and the contractor will provide the appropriate ground school. 
However, no report is required following the flight. The single digit indicates required prerequisites for 
the ground school and flights (e.g., 7210G is required before 7220F, 7211G is required before 7221F). 
Prerequisites: 
TF 5201A Human Systems Integration Lecture 
TF 7102A Contractor Interaction Lecture 
 
TF 7230G C-17 Experience Broadening Qual Eval Ground School (FTC) 
TF 7231F C-17 Experience Broadening Qual Eval Flight (FTC) 
The ground school will cover the required areas of operation for students to evaluate the C-17 in 
groups. There is no reporting requirement for this flight. 
Prerequisites: 
TF 5201A Human Systems Integration Lecture 
TF 7102A Contractor Interaction Lecture 
 
TF 7240S Heavy Aircraft Sim Evals (FTC) 
Utilizing high-fidelity simulators, students will be exposed to two modern heavy aircraft of different 
designs to compare different design philosophies. In addition to experiencing test operations in a large 
aircraft, students will perform high-risk large aircraft ground/flight test techniques that cannot be 
performed inflight at TPS due to safety and aircraft availability considerations. 
Prerequisites: 
FQ 9101A Failure Modes Testing Lecture 
TF 5201A Human Systems Integration Lecture 
TF 7102A Contractor Interaction Lecture 
 
TF 7250G Navy TPS Fixed Wing Qual Eval Ground School (FTC) 
TF 7251F Navy TPS Fixed Wing Qual Eval Flight (FTC) 
During a visit to the US Navy Test Pilot School (USNTPS), experience broadening non-graded qual 
evals may include an F/A-18 out-of-control flight demonstration (when available), a single-engine tail 
dragger for pilots, and/or a T-6B for non-pilots. 
Prerequisites: 
TF 5201A Human Systems Integration Lecture  
TF 7102A Contractor Interaction Lecture 
 


===== PAGE 153 =====
 
 
153 
 
TF 7300 Rotary Wing (FTC) 
Terminal Learning Objectives: 
Upon completion of this Module, students will be able to: 
TLO 1. Recall the performance, flying qualities, and systems characteristics for rotary wing 
aircraft. 
 
TF 7301M Intro to Rotary Wing Flight MIB (FTC) 
TF 7302G Intro to Rotary Wing Ground School (FTC) 
TF 7303F Intro to Rotary Wing Flight (FTC) 
This MIB will outline the learning objectives of flying rotary wing aircraft and basic warnings and 
limitations students can expect. The ground school will cover basic rotary wing flight dynamics and the 
different controls involved in flying helicopters to prepare students for their introductory flight. 
Prerequisites: 
TF 5201A Human Systems Integration Lecture  
TF 7102A Contractor Interaction Lecture 
 
TF 7310G Advanced Rotary Wing Qual Eval Ground School (FTC) 
TF 7311F Advanced Rotary Wing Qual Eval Flight (FTC) 
Students will be exposed to rotary wing flight test techniques during their visit to Capstone field trip. 
All related ground school and academics will take place at the host location. This experience broadening 
non-graded qual eval will expose the students to unique rotary wing flight characteristics and flight test 
techniques.  
Prerequisites: 
TF 7301M Intro to Rotary Wing Flight MIB (FTC) 
 


===== PAGE 154 =====
 
 
154 
 
TF 7400 Additional Broadeners (FTC) 
Terminal Learning Objectives: 
During completion of this Module, students will be able to: 
TLO 1. View real-world test execution events.  
 
TF 7401C Real-World Control Room Observation (US Only) (FTC) 
Students will observe a real-world flight test mission control room to provide them with a better 
perspective of real-world control room operations. The event will also help students better visualize the 
roles and responsibilities that they may have post-graduation.  
Prerequisites: 
TF 6280A Secure Flight Test – Special Topics Lecture (US Only) [req’d for US Only Control Rooms 
with Special Access Programs] 
 


===== PAGE 155 =====
 
 
155 
 
TF 7500 Capstone Qualitative Evaluation 
Terminal Learning Objectives: 
Upon completion of this Module, students will be able to: 
TLO 1. Differentiate between a variety of aircraft/spacecraft performance, flying qualities, and 
systems characteristics as their experiences broaden by flying multiple platforms.  
TLO 2. Prioritize collection of appropriate, mission-relevant data which will answer evaluation 
objectives during planning and execution of single-sortie qualitative evaluations in 
unfamiliar platforms.  
TLO 3. Interpret qualitative evaluation results in the context of system requirements and the 
platforms’ intended mission through a limited-scope oral report. 
 
TF 7501M Capstone Qual Eval MIB 
TF 7502R Capstone Qual Eval Test Plan 
TF 7503F Capstone Qual Eval Flight 
TF 7504Y Capstone Qual Eval Oral Report 
The student team will develop a test plan to evaluate an unfamiliar aircraft in a scenario that the 
students develop. Students will deconstruct the scenario into relevant qual eval test objectives and 
appropriate test techniques for obtaining the qualitative and quantitative data necessary to inform the test 
objectives. In addition to the test plan, test cards will also be submitted for staff monitor review. 
Upon returning from their capstone qual eval, students will present their findings in a brief oral report 
to the school. Students in the junior class observe the oral report. 
This event provides students with the opportunity to demonstrate their ability to plan, execute, and 
deliver an oral report on a qualitative evaluation of an unfamiliar aircraft. The student will fly a single 
qual eval sortie at the capstone host location to collect data for the report.  
Prerequisites: 
TF 7113R Graded Qual Eval 1 Report 
 


===== PAGE 156 =====
 
 
156 
 
TF 7600 STC Qualitative Evaluation (STC) 
Terminal Learning Objectives: 
Upon completion of this Module, students will be able to: 
TLO 1. Differentiate between a variety of aircraft/spacecraft performance, flying qualities, and 
systems characteristics as their experiences broaden by flying multiple platforms.  
 
TF 7601A Wideband Global SATCOM (WGS) Intro (STC)  
This lesson is a precursor to the TF 5230M Human Systems Evaluation MIB. It provides 
familiarization with the WGS Technical Orders and other engineering documentation students will be 
interacting with during the exercise. 
Prerequisites: 
AN 5121A Dean of Faculty Introduction 
 
 


===== PAGE 157 =====
 
 
157 
 
TF 8000 Test Management Project 
(4 Semester Credit Hours) 
Test Management Projects (TMPs) are customer sponsored real-world test projects which are 
performed by the USAF TPS students with guidance from the TPS staff. Students are divided into test 
teams with approximately 4-6 individuals to a team. The customer provides the research concept or item 
to be tested, and the students design the plan to test the system under test. TPS students collect the test 
data, reduce the data, conduct data analysis, and provide a written and oral test report for the customer at 
the end of the process. 
TF 8100 TMP Planning 
Terminal Learning Objectives: 
Upon completion of this Module, students will be able to: 
TLO 1. Construct a real-world test program and collaborate with key stakeholders through the full 
lifecycle – from test concept through final report and presentation of the results.  
TLO 2. Design a test to answer a customer's needs and modify their approach throughout the 
lifecycle of the program to address test program objectives.  
 
TF 8101A TMP Assignments and Intro Lecture 
TF 8102W TMP Resources Workshop 
TF 8103W TMP Core Team Meeting 
TF 8104W TMP Test Plan Working Group 1  
TF 8105W TMP Test Plan Working Group 2 
TF 8106R TMP Test Plan and Safety Package 
TF 8107W TMP Technical Review Board/Safety Review Board 
TF 8108Y TMP Test Approval Briefing 
During the TMP Assignments and Introduction Lecture, students will be presented with their assigned 
TMP groups. A basic overview of the 412 Test Wing Program Management process, expectations and 
timelines for the TMP process, and differences between the USAF TPS TMP process and 412 TW 
process will be presented. 
During the Resources Workshop, each student team will meet with the USAF TPS Program 
Managers, TMP Director, and their Staff Advisors to discuss their specific programmatic requirements 
and resources. Students will be instructed to draft a 412 TW Test Concept Document (TCD), identifying 
their TMP's overall objectives, any aircraft or pod modifications required, and support required from 
other organizations such as logistics, ranges, instrumentation, environmental, frequency management, 
and/or maintenance. The TCD will be required for TF 8103W. 
Prior to the Core Team Meeting, the student teams will send their TCDs to the USAF TPS A5 TMP 
Program Manager and TMP Director, who will review the TCDs for any final edits. The A5 Program 
Manager will formally begin the 412 TW PID/SOC process by distributing the TCDs to the 412 TW 
POCs and non-AFTC organizations identified by each student team and requesting a JON. During the 
Core Team Meeting, the student teams will present their TCDs to the respective organizations, allowing 
the organizations an opportunity to either concur or non-concur with the support being requested. 
During the TMP planning process, students will have two test plan working groups (TPWGs) to assist 
them with drafting their test plan, safety plan, execution schedule, and any additional documentation as 
required by their TMP. The first TPWG will focus on defining the general test objectives (GTOs), 
specific test objectives (STOs), measures of performance (MOPs), and any outstanding technical planning 
discussions that will feed directly into their test plan development. 


===== PAGE 158 =====
 
 
158 
 
For the second TPWG, the TMP Director, Staff Advisors, and assigned Unit Test Safety Officer will 
review the updated draft test and safety plans. The focus will be on ensuring the team's test plan 
objectives, methodologies, and data analysis plans are well-constructed, and that the safety plan identifies 
and mitigates all risks associated with executing the test plan. Upon conclusion of the second TPWG, 
student teams will be able to incorporate feedback to have a finalized test plan and safety plan ready to 
submit to the technical and safety review boards. 
Graded test plans and safety plans will be submitted to the TPS-led Technical Review Board and the 
412 TW SET-led Safety Review Board. 
The purpose of the Technical Review Board (TRB) is to have the student teams present their TMP 
test plans to the USAF TPS Technical Director (or delegate) and other appointed TRB members, to 
defend that the test plan is technically adequate, and answer the proposed TMP research question and 
customer's need. The TRB chair will provide a letter of technical adequacy to the Technical Execution 
Authority (TEA)/TPS Commandant. 
The Safety Review Board (SRB), led by a representative of the 412 TW Test Safety Office, is 
composed of a panel of Independent Operational Reviewers, Technical Experts, TPS Chief UTSO, 
assigned TMP UTSO, and potentially STARCOM DEL 12 Safety Officers. The purpose of the SRB is to 
provide a safety review and risk assessment of the finalized safety plan, which will be presented to the 
TEA/TPS Commandant. 
Upon completion of both the TRB and SRB, the students will document and correct any action items 
prior to proceeding with their request for test execution approval. 
Prerequisites: 
AN 5180A Test Foundations Phase Intro 
TF 5410A Test Safety Principles Lecture [req’d for TF 8104W] 
TF 6104A Intro to Managing Tests Lecture [req’d for TF 8104W] 
 
 


===== PAGE 159 =====
 
 
159 
 
TF 8200 TMP Execution 
Terminal Learning Objectives: 
Upon completion of this Module, students will be able to: 
TLO 1. Execute their TMP data flights/test events, in accordance with their approved test and 
safety plans. 
 
TF 8201F TMP Data Flights/Events 
The purpose of the test missions is to collect data in accordance with the test plan and safety package 
to answer the customer’s questions. 
Prerequisites: 
TF 8108Y TMP Test Approval Briefing 
 


===== PAGE 160 =====
 
 
160 
 
TF 8300 TMP Reporting 
Terminal Learning Objectives: 
Upon completion of this Module, students will be able to: 
TLO 1. Brief their peers and TPS Staff on their planned TMP test objectives, test execution 
schedule, and expected test results. 
TLO 2. Brief their peers, TPS Staff, and base leadership on their test execution, data results, and 
any constraints or limitations that occurred during execution. 
TLO 3. Author a technical information memorandum that identifies the data collected, analysis 
methods, and data-driven conclusions and recommendations. 
 
TF 8301Y TMP Program Assessment Review 1 
TF 8302W TMP Pre-Writers Meeting 
TF 8303Y TMP Program Assessment Review 2 
TF 8304W TMP Data Working Group 
TF 8305W TMP Report Coordination Meeting 
TF 8306R TMP Final Written Report (TIM) 
TF 8307Y TMP Final Oral Report 
The purpose of the first Program Assessment Review (PAR) is for each student TMP team to present 
their planned test objectives, test methodology, test schedule, and expected test results to their peers and 
TPS staff. 
The purpose of the Pre-Writers meeting is to brief students on the reporting expectations for their 
TMP, instruct them on how to write a TPS technical information memorandum (TIM), and to highlight 
the differences between the USAF TPS TMP TIM versus the 412 TW Technical Report. Upon conclusion 
of this meeting, student teams will be able to develop their draft TIMs.  
The second Program Assessment Review is intended to have the student teams brief their peers and 
TPS Staff on what occurred during their two-week TMP execution window. This will include the actual 
test execution schedule, preliminary status of data analysis, completion status of the test objectives and 
measures of performance, and any constraints or limitations that affected execution.  
The TMP Data Working Group is a post-execution, one-hour meeting with the student teams, TMP 
Director, Staff Advisor, and appropriate operations/technical experts to discuss data collected, analysis 
progress and way forward, and the anticipated scope of results and conclusions before completion of the 
final draft report for the TMP Report Coordination Meeting.  
The Report Coordination Meeting is a graded event for TMPs, equivalent to the 412 TW "murder 
board." The purpose of this meeting is to review the students' TIMs by conducting a line-by-line review, 
and discuss action items and comments required prior to submitting the final report for approval and 
signature by the TPS commandant and Technical Directors.  
The final signed and approved TMP TIM is an official USAF TPS document that will be submitted to 
the TMP customers. Depending on the distribution statement and classification of the TIM, the TIM may 
be submitted for Public Release Approval and stored in the Defense Technical Information Center and/or 
412 TW Technical Library.  
The TMP final oral report is a graded 45-minute presentation by each of the student teams to brief 
their peers, AFTC, STARCOM, 412 TW, Delta 12, senior base leadership, and/or key stakeholders on 
their TMP results.  
Prerequisites: 
TF 8107W TMP Technical Review Board/Safety Review Board 
TF 8201F TMP Data Flights/Events [req’d for 8302W] 
 


===== PAGE 161 =====
 
 
161 
 
TF 9000 Comprehensive Exams 
(6 Semester Credit Hours) 
The Comprehensive Exams are major assessments which evaluate individual student knowledge and 
practical applications of what they have learned throughout the year. 
TF 9100 Comprehensive Exams 
 
TF 9101M Comprehensive Written Exam MIB 
TF 9102E Comprehensive Written Exam 
Students will be tested on major concepts from the USAF Test Pilot School curriculum: domain 
sciences and mission systems. The comprehensive written exam will be conducted once the foundational 
classroom academics have been presented in each of the sciences. 
Prerequisites: 
AS 7110A Satellite Attitude Estimation & Control 
AS 7120A Satellite Power Subsystems 
AS 7301A Space Propulsion  
AS 8210A RPO Path Controllers   
AS 8301A Advanced Kalman Filter and Relative Navigation  
FQ 8102E Handling Qualities Evaluation Exam 
FQ 9101A Failure Modes Testing Lecture 
FQ 9202E Stall, Departure and Spin Testing Exam 
FQ 9301A Stores Certification Lecture 
FQ 9411E First Flight and Envelope Expansion Exam 
PF 6241R Model Validation Report 
PF 8351Y Performance Phase Final Test Oral Report 
SY 8501E Kill Web Mission Systems End-of-Course 
 
TF 9110M Comprehensive Oral Exam MIB 
TF 9111E Comprehensive Oral Exam 
Students will be evaluated on their ability to: 1) analyze a test scenario and clearly identify proper 
objectives that trace to data elements required to meet those objectives; 2) clearly identify the primary 
safety, security, technical, and programmatic risks; 3) demonstrate a clear understanding of the 
fundamental engineering principles related to test, translating program objectives and data requirements 
into proper test techniques and/or procedures; 4) translate test techniques and procedures into correct 
instrumentation and resource requirements; 5) demonstrate proper Test Judgement; and 6) effectively 
communicate and defend the test program and adapt it to unexpected circumstances. Students will think 
critically and apply skills and knowledge gained throughout the year to develop a plan for evaluating a 
system. Students must consider program requirements, test objectives, data requirements, test techniques, 
resources, and risks while properly scoping the test campaign with appropriate technical and safety 
buildup. Students must effectively communicate and defend their plan to a review board comprised of 
USAF Test Pilot School instructors. 
Prerequisites: 
FQ 9502S Sim Flying Qualities Practical Exam (ABM/CSO/RPA) [req’d for TF 9111E] 
FQ 9511F T-38 Flying Qualities Practical Exam (P) [req’d for TF 9111E] 
FQ 9512C T-38 Flying Qualities Practical Control Room (FTE) [req’d for TF 9111E] 
SY 7503F MQ-9 Systems Practical Exam (ABM/CSO/RPA, select FTE/P) [req’d for TF 9111E] 
SY 7511F F-16 Systems Practical Exam Flight (P) [req’d for TF 9111E] 
SY 7512C F-16 Systems Practical Exam Control Room (FTE) [req’d for TF 9111E] 
SY 7521O Space Systems Practical (STC) [req’d for TF 9111E] 


===== PAGE 162 =====
 
 
162 
 
TF 5103R Systems Engineering for Testers Project Written Report 
TF 5201A Human Systems Integration Lecture 
TF 9102E Comprehensive Written Exam 
TL 5101A Week 1 Class 1 
TL 5110A Operational Test 
TL 6101A Negotiation, Persuasion, & Communication (NPC) Course 
TL 7101A Innovation Course 
TL 8101A Case Study Seminars 
 
