===== PAGE 156 =====
 
 
156 
 
TF 7600 STC Qualitative Evaluation (STC) 
Terminal Learning Objectives: 
Upon completion of this Module, students will be able to: 
TLO 1. Differentiate between a variety of aircraft/spacecraft performance, flying qualities, and 
systems characteristics as their experiences broaden by flying multiple platforms.  
 
TF 7601A Wideband Global SATCOM (WGS) Intro (STC)  
This lesson is a precursor to the TF 5230M Human Systems Evaluation MIB. It provides 
familiarization with the WGS Technical Orders and other engineering documentation students will be 
interacting with during the exercise. 
Prerequisites: 
AN 5121A Dean of Faculty Introduction 
 
 


===== PAGE 157 =====
 
 
157 
 
TF 8000 Test Management Project 
(4 Semester Credit Hours) 
Test Management Projects (TMPs) are customer sponsored real-world test projects which are 
performed by the USAF TPS students with guidance from the TPS staff. Students are divided into test 
teams with approximately 4-6 individuals to a team. The customer provides the research concept or item 
to be tested, and the students design the plan to test the system under test. TPS students collect the test 
data, reduce the data, conduct data analysis, and provide a written and oral test report for the customer at 
the end of the process. 
TF 8100 TMP Planning 
Terminal Learning Objectives: 
Upon completion of this Module, students will be able to: 
TLO 1. Construct a real-world test program and collaborate with key stakeholders through the full 
lifecycle – from test concept through final report and presentation of the results.  
TLO 2. Design a test to answer a customer's needs and modify their approach throughout the 
lifecycle of the program to address test program objectives.  
 
TF 8101A TMP Assignments and Intro Lecture 
TF 8102W TMP Resources Workshop 
TF 8103W TMP Core Team Meeting 
TF 8104W TMP Test Plan Working Group 1  
TF 8105W TMP Test Plan Working Group 2 
TF 8106R TMP Test Plan and Safety Package 
TF 8107W TMP Technical Review Board/Safety Review Board 
TF 8108Y TMP Test Approval Briefing 
During the TMP Assignments and Introduction Lecture, students will be presented with their assigned 
TMP groups. A basic overview of the 412 Test Wing Program Management process, expectations and 
timelines for the TMP process, and differences between the USAF TPS TMP process and 412 TW 
process will be presented. 
During the Resources Workshop, each student team will meet with the USAF TPS Program 
Managers, TMP Director, and their Staff Advisors to discuss their specific programmatic requirements 
and resources. Students will be instructed to draft a 412 TW Test Concept Document (TCD), identifying 
their TMP's overall objectives, any aircraft or pod modifications required, and support required from 
other organizations such as logistics, ranges, instrumentation, environmental, frequency management, 
and/or maintenance. The TCD will be required for TF 8103W. 
Prior to the Core Team Meeting, the student teams will send their TCDs to the USAF TPS A5 TMP 
Program Manager and TMP Director, who will review the TCDs for any final edits. The A5 Program 
Manager will formally begin the 412 TW PID/SOC process by distributing the TCDs to the 412 TW 
POCs and non-AFTC organizations identified by each student team and requesting a JON. During the 
Core Team Meeting, the student teams will present their TCDs to the respective organizations, allowing 
the organizations an opportunity to either concur or non-concur with the support being requested. 
During the TMP planning process, students will have two test plan working groups (TPWGs) to assist 
them with drafting their test plan, safety plan, execution schedule, and any additional documentation as 
required by their TMP. The first TPWG will focus on defining the general test objectives (GTOs), 
specific test objectives (STOs), measures of performance (MOPs), and any outstanding technical planning 
discussions that will feed directly into their test plan development. 


===== PAGE 158 =====
 
 
158 
 
For the second TPWG, the TMP Director, Staff Advisors, and assigned Unit Test Safety Officer will 
review the updated draft test and safety plans. The focus will be on ensuring the team's test plan 
objectives, methodologies, and data analysis plans are well-constructed, and that the safety plan identifies 
and mitigates all risks associated with executing the test plan. Upon conclusion of the second TPWG, 
student teams will be able to incorporate feedback to have a finalized test plan and safety plan ready to 
submit to the technical and safety review boards. 
Graded test plans and safety plans will be submitted to the TPS-led Technical Review Board and the 
412 TW SET-led Safety Review Board. 
The purpose of the Technical Review Board (TRB) is to have the student teams present their TMP 
test plans to the USAF TPS Technical Director (or delegate) and other appointed TRB members, to 
defend that the test plan is technically adequate, and answer the proposed TMP research question and 
customer's need. The TRB chair will provide a letter of technical adequacy to the Technical Execution 
Authority (TEA)/TPS Commandant. 
The Safety Review Board (SRB), led by a representative of the 412 TW Test Safety Office, is 
composed of a panel of Independent Operational Reviewers, Technical Experts, TPS Chief UTSO, 
assigned TMP UTSO, and potentially STARCOM DEL 12 Safety Officers. The purpose of the SRB is to 
provide a safety review and risk assessment of the finalized safety plan, which will be presented to the 
TEA/TPS Commandant. 
Upon completion of both the TRB and SRB, the students will document and correct any action items 
prior to proceeding with their request for test execution approval. 
Prerequisites: 
AN 5180A Test Foundations Phase Intro 
TF 5410A Test Safety Principles Lecture [req’d for TF 8104W] 
TF 6104A Intro to Managing Tests Lecture [req’d for TF 8104W] 
 
 


===== PAGE 159 =====
 
 
159 
 
TF 8200 TMP Execution 
Terminal Learning Objectives: 
Upon completion of this Module, students will be able to: 
TLO 1. Execute their TMP data flights/test events, in accordance with their approved test and 
safety plans. 
 
TF 8201F TMP Data Flights/Events 
The purpose of the test missions is to collect data in accordance with the test plan and safety package 
to answer the customer’s questions. 
Prerequisites: 
TF 8108Y TMP Test Approval Briefing 
 


===== PAGE 160 =====
 
 
160 
 
TF 8300 TMP Reporting 
Terminal Learning Objectives: 
Upon completion of this Module, students will be able to: 
TLO 1. Brief their peers and TPS Staff on their planned TMP test objectives, test execution 
schedule, and expected test results. 
TLO 2. Brief their peers, TPS Staff, and base leadership on their test execution, data results, and 
any constraints or limitations that occurred during execution. 
TLO 3. Author a technical information memorandum that identifies the data collected, analysis 
methods, and data-driven conclusions and recommendations. 
 
TF 8301Y TMP Program Assessment Review 1 
TF 8302W TMP Pre-Writers Meeting 
TF 8303Y TMP Program Assessment Review 2 
TF 8304W TMP Data Working Group 
TF 8305W TMP Report Coordination Meeting 
TF 8306R TMP Final Written Report (TIM) 
TF 8307Y TMP Final Oral Report 
The purpose of the first Program Assessment Review (PAR) is for each student TMP team to present 
their planned test objectives, test methodology, test schedule, and expected test results to their peers and 
TPS staff. 
The purpose of the Pre-Writers meeting is to brief students on the reporting expectations for their 
TMP, instruct them on how to write a TPS technical information memorandum (TIM), and to highlight 
the differences between the USAF TPS TMP TIM versus the 412 TW Technical Report. Upon conclusion 
of this meeting, student teams will be able to develop their draft TIMs.  
The second Program Assessment Review is intended to have the student teams brief their peers and 
TPS Staff on what occurred during their two-week TMP execution window. This will include the actual 
test execution schedule, preliminary status of data analysis, completion status of the test objectives and 
measures of performance, and any constraints or limitations that affected execution.  
The TMP Data Working Group is a post-execution, one-hour meeting with the student teams, TMP 
Director, Staff Advisor, and appropriate operations/technical experts to discuss data collected, analysis 
progress and way forward, and the anticipated scope of results and conclusions before completion of the 
final draft report for the TMP Report Coordination Meeting.  
The Report Coordination Meeting is a graded event for TMPs, equivalent to the 412 TW "murder 
board." The purpose of this meeting is to review the students' TIMs by conducting a line-by-line review, 
and discuss action items and comments required prior to submitting the final report for approval and 
signature by the TPS commandant and Technical Directors.  
The final signed and approved TMP TIM is an official USAF TPS document that will be submitted to 
the TMP customers. Depending on the distribution statement and classification of the TIM, the TIM may 
be submitted for Public Release Approval and stored in the Defense Technical Information Center and/or 
412 TW Technical Library.  
The TMP final oral report is a graded 45-minute presentation by each of the student teams to brief 
their peers, AFTC, STARCOM, 412 TW, Delta 12, senior base leadership, and/or key stakeholders on 
their TMP results.  
Prerequisites: 
TF 8107W TMP Technical Review Board/Safety Review Board 
TF 8201F TMP Data Flights/Events [req’d for 8302W] 
 


===== PAGE 161 =====
 
 
161 
 
TF 9000 Comprehensive Exams 
(6 Semester Credit Hours) 
The Comprehensive Exams are major assessments which evaluate individual student knowledge and 
practical applications of what they have learned throughout the year. 
TF 9100 Comprehensive Exams 
 
TF 9101M Comprehensive Written Exam MIB 
TF 9102E Comprehensive Written Exam 
Students will be tested on major concepts from the USAF Test Pilot School curriculum: domain 
sciences and mission systems. The comprehensive written exam will be conducted once the foundational 
classroom academics have been presented in each of the sciences. 
Prerequisites: 
AS 7110A Satellite Attitude Estimation & Control 
AS 7120A Satellite Power Subsystems 
AS 7301A Space Propulsion  
AS 8210A RPO Path Controllers   
AS 8301A Advanced Kalman Filter and Relative Navigation  
FQ 8102E Handling Qualities Evaluation Exam 
FQ 9101A Failure Modes Testing Lecture 
FQ 9202E Stall, Departure and Spin Testing Exam 
FQ 9301A Stores Certification Lecture 
FQ 9411E First Flight and Envelope Expansion Exam 
PF 6241R Model Validation Report 
PF 8351Y Performance Phase Final Test Oral Report 
SY 8501E Kill Web Mission Systems End-of-Course 
 
TF 9110M Comprehensive Oral Exam MIB 
TF 9111E Comprehensive Oral Exam 
Students will be evaluated on their ability to: 1) analyze a test scenario and clearly identify proper 
objectives that trace to data elements required to meet those objectives; 2) clearly identify the primary 
safety, security, technical, and programmatic risks; 3) demonstrate a clear understanding of the 
fundamental engineering principles related to test, translating program objectives and data requirements 
into proper test techniques and/or procedures; 4) translate test techniques and procedures into correct 
instrumentation and resource requirements; 5) demonstrate proper Test Judgement; and 6) effectively 
communicate and defend the test program and adapt it to unexpected circumstances. Students will think 
critically and apply skills and knowledge gained throughout the year to develop a plan for evaluating a 
system. Students must consider program requirements, test objectives, data requirements, test techniques, 
resources, and risks while properly scoping the test campaign with appropriate technical and safety 
buildup. Students must effectively communicate and defend their plan to a review board comprised of 
USAF Test Pilot School instructors. 
Prerequisites: 
FQ 9502S Sim Flying Qualities Practical Exam (ABM/CSO/RPA) [req’d for TF 9111E] 
FQ 9511F T-38 Flying Qualities Practical Exam (P) [req’d for TF 9111E] 
FQ 9512C T-38 Flying Qualities Practical Control Room (FTE) [req’d for TF 9111E] 
SY 7503F MQ-9 Systems Practical Exam (ABM/CSO/RPA, select FTE/P) [req’d for TF 9111E] 
SY 7511F F-16 Systems Practical Exam Flight (P) [req’d for TF 9111E] 
SY 7512C F-16 Systems Practical Exam Control Room (FTE) [req’d for TF 9111E] 
SY 7521O Space Systems Practical (STC) [req’d for TF 9111E] 


===== PAGE 162 =====
 
 
162 
 
TF 5103R Systems Engineering for Testers Project Written Report 
TF 5201A Human Systems Integration Lecture 
TF 9102E Comprehensive Written Exam 
TL 5101A Week 1 Class 1 
TL 5110A Operational Test 
TL 6101A Negotiation, Persuasion, & Communication (NPC) Course 
TL 7101A Innovation Course 
TL 8101A Case Study Seminars 
 
