===== PAGE 38 =====
 
38 
 
Space Operations Training 
The prerequisite Space Operations Training (SO) phase prepares all students to safely serve as 
crewmembers on curriculum space systems. STC students are provided hands-on experience as system 
operators and crew commanders on Aerocube and GROOT. All students receive exposure to basic 
satellite operations. The SO Training phase also provides familiarization training designed to prepare 
students for specific curriculum test events including anomaly recovery. It should be noted that this phase 
is under heavy development and may be modified based on the available assets at the time of instruction. 
Faculty Contact Information 
The faculty for this phase consists primarily of the Director of Space Operations, and the Chief 
Technician for the various space systems. 
Notional Breakdown of Grades 
The Space Operations Training phase provides the training and qualification necessary to start the 
related academic content. Although most events in the SO Training phase are graded, these grades are 
only used to document that the student has achieved the required learning objectives and proficiency 
levels. Failure to achieve the required proficiency level would normally prevent the student from 
progressing in the curriculum and necessitate removal from the course. There are no semester hours 
associated with this Phase. SO grades do not factor into GPA, but with very few exceptions all events must 
be completed or passed to complete the USAF TPS course. 
References and Texts 
Most courses will be taught in class from PowerPoint presentations. These presentations will 
generally be available to the students on the TPS curriculum portal. The SO phase is based almost entirely 
on space system engineering documents and training slides. Most references will be available on-line 
through the Curriculum Portal. 
Phase Organization and Learning Objectives 
Achievement of a required skill may be evaluated through formal proficiency testing, face-to-face 
evaluation, and simulator or flight grades. Students do not receive formal qualification in any event or 
space system but there are numerous events that must be successfully completed to pass the SO phase and 
continue into the curriculum. An overview can be seen in Figure 10. 
 
 
Figure 10: Space Operations Overview 


===== PAGE 39 =====
 
39 
 
SO 6000 Operations Training 
(0 Semester Credit Hours) 
This course provides the space operations training necessary to prepare all students for safely and 
effectively executing and participating in curriculum events.  
SO 6100 GROOT Training 
Terminal Learning Objectives: 
Upon completion of this Module, students will be able to: 
TLO 1. Demonstrate necessary skills as satellite system operators and crew commanders and gain 
exposure to satellite operations and data collection tasks. 
TLO 2. Recall tenants of nominal and anomalous satellite operations. 
 
SO 6101A GROOT Training Brief 
SO 6102A GROOT Maneuver Academics 
SO 6103A GROOT Robotics Academics 
An overview of the GROOT system and its operation are provided. Maneuver academics introduces 
the student to mission planning, briefing, execution, and debrief (PBED) of two satellites operating near 
each other to students with limited satellite operations and rendezvous and proximity operations (RPO) 
experience. Robotics academics reinforces PBED and continues to build basic satellite ops knowledge 
and skills.  
Prerequisites: 
AN 5140A Space Operations Introduction 
 
SO 6110S GROOT Maneuver Operations 
The profiles for this simulator event are structured to familiarize students with manual and automatic 
translation and rotation of the GROOT vehicle.  
Prerequisites: 
SO 6102A GROOT Maneuver Academics 
 
SO 6120S GROOT Robotics Operations 
The profiles for this simulator event are structured to familiarize students with the various operational 
modes of the robotic arm, to demonstrate successful grapple, and to demonstrate various impedances to 
successful grapple. 
Prerequisites: 
SO 6103A GROOT Robotics Academics 
SO 6110S GROOT Maneuver Operations 
 
SO 6130-2S GROOT Supervised Exploration and Check-ride Prep SO-1-3 
These simulator sessions are structured to allow students to explore the GROOT simulator, develop 
proficiency with CRM, maneuver, and robotics operations. Students will use these sessions to develop 
their check-ride profiles. 
Prerequisites: 
SO 6120S GROOT Robotics Operations 
 
 
 
 
 


===== PAGE 40 =====
 
40 
 
SO 6140S GROOT Check-ride 
Students will demonstrate proficiency on manual and automatic maneuver and robotic operations. 
Prerequisites: 
SO 6132S GROOT Supervised Exploration and Check-ride Prep SO-3 
 
Figure 11: SO 6100 GROOT Training 


===== PAGE 41 =====
 
41 
 
SO 6200 Aerocube Training 
Terminal Learning Objectives: 
Upon completion of this Module, students will be able to: 
TLO 1. Demonstrate skills as satellite system operators and crew commanders and gain exposure 
to satellite operations and data collection tasks. 
TLO 2. Recall tenants of nominal and anomalous satellite operations. 
 
SO 6201A Ops 101 Training 
Students are introduced to roles and responsibilities, battle rhythm, flight safety and best practices for 
Aerocube satellite operations. 
Prerequisites: 
AN 5140A Space Operations Introduction 
 
SO 6210A Aerocube Training 
Students are introduced to the Aerocube space segment, satellite modes, vehicle commanding, 
telemetry, orbit, and attitude. Students are also provided an overview of the Aerocube ground segment, 
stations and tools 
Prerequisites: 
SO 6201A Ops 101 Training 
 
SO 6220H SOCR Display Familiarization 
This event is designed to introduce students to the display layout for Aerocube operations. Students 
will learn how to configure the operator and crew commander terminals and discuss how each element 
supports operations. 
Prerequisites: 
SO 6210A Aerocube Training 
 
SO 6230E SOCR Display Exam 
SO 6231O Aerocube Contact Demo 
Students will complete an examination to configure the display and explain operational relevance of 
each window. Scheduled concurrently with SO 6231O Contact Demo. Students will learn to build 
commands, pass plans, and how to run a nominal Aerocube satellite contact. Students must pass their 
exam to proceed into the contact demo 
Prerequisites: 
SO 6220H Aerocube Display Familiarization 
 
SO 6240O Aerocube First Contact 
SO 6241O Aerocube Crew Solo 
This event is designed to allow students to serve as operator and then crew commander on a live 
satellite contact. Students will perform nominal crew operations on Aerocube without supervising 
instructor input. 
 
Prerequisites: 
SO 6231O Aerocube Contact Demo 
 
